I am Kshitij Jha of Mithila. Mithila (IAST: Mithilā), also known as Tirhut, Tirabhukti and Mithilanchal, is a geographical and cultural region of the Indian subcontinent bounded by the Mahananda River in the east, the Ganges in the south, the Gandaki River in the west and by the foothills of the Himalayas in the north.[2][3] It comprises certain parts of Bihar and Jharkhand states of India[4] and adjoining districts of the Koshi Province, Bagmati Pradesh and Madhesh Province of Nepal.[5][6] The native language in Mithila is Maithili, and its speakers are referred to as Maithils.[2]

Mithila is commonly used to refer to the Videha Kingdom, as well as to the modern-day territories that fall within the ancient boundaries of Videha.[6][7] Until the 20th century, Mithila was still ruled in part by the Raj Darbhanga. In Buddhist annals, it is also known as Miyulu.[8]
Vedic period
Mithila first gained prominence after being settled by Indo-Aryan peoples who established the Videha kingdom.[16] During the Later Vedic period (c. 1100–500 BCE), Videha became one of the major political and cultural centers of Ancient India, along with Kuru and Panchala. The kings of the Videha Kingdom were called Janakas.[17] The Videha Kingdom was incorporated into the Vajjika League, which had its capital in the city of Vaishali, and is also in Mithila.[18]
Medieval period
From the 11th century to the 20th century, Mithila was ruled by various indigenous dynasties. The first of these was the Karnats of Mithila,[20] the Oiniwar Dynasty and the Khandwala Dynasty, also known as Raj Darbhanga. The Malla dynasty and Licchavi dynasty of Nepal are also Maithil in origin. The rulers of the Oiniwar Dynasty and the Raj Darbhanga were Maithil Brahmins. The Oiniwar Dynasty originated from the village Oini in the Samastipur district of the Mithila region. It was during the reign of the Raj Darbhanga family that the capital of Mithila was shifted to Darbhanga.[21]

Tughlaq had attacked and taken control of Bihar, and from the end of the Tughlaq Dynasty until the establishment of the Mughal Empire in 1526, there was anarchy and chaos in the region. Akbar (reigned from 1556 to 1605) realised that taxes from Mithila could only be collected if there was a king who could ensure peace there. The Maithil Brahmins were dominant in the Mithila region and Mithila had Maithil Brahmin kings in the past.[citation needed]

Akbar summoned Rajpandit Chandrapati Thakur to Delhi and asked him to name one of his sons who could be made caretaker and tax collector for his lands in Mithila. Chandrapati Thakur named his middle son, Mahesh Thakur, and Akbar declared Mahesh Thakur as the caretaker of Mithila on the day of Ram Navami in 1557 AD.

Lakshmeshwar Singh (reigned from 1860 to 1898) was the eldest son of Maharaja Maheshwar Singh of Darbhanga. He, along with his younger brother, Rameshwar Singh received a western education from Government appointed tutors as well as a traditional Indian education from a Sanskrit Pandit. He spent approximately £300,000 on relief work during the famine of 1873–74. He constructed hundreds of miles of roads in various parts of the Raj, planting them with tens of thousands of trees for the comfort of travellers, as part of generating employment for people effected by famine. He constructed iron bridges over all the navigable rivers

He built, and entirely supported, a first-class Dispensary at Darbhanga, which cost £3400; a similar one at Kharakpur, which cost £3500; and largely contributed to many others